README.md, before:

# dotfiles-wsl
My horrible configuration files for Ubuntu on Windows, and an even worse attempt at creating an installer for mucking it all up again.

## Usage

Clone repo into subfolder,  
```$ git clone https://github.com/jonaspetersorensen/dotfiles-wsl.git ~/.dotfiles```  

Then run "please install" to install all I(eh, you?) need for happy development,  
```bash ~/.dotfiles/please.sh install```

For just a quick update of all dotfiles then run "please update",  
```bash ~/.dotfiles/please.sh update```

  
## SSH  

WSL and persisting ssh keys can be a pain.  
My current solution is to configure `~/.ssh/config` as shown in repo/ssh/config example.


## VPN

WSL does not pick up on network changes when enabling vpn in win10.  
My current workaround is to manually set which dns WSL should use each time I start vpn in win10 as shown in [vpn/win10-vpn-resolv.conf](./vpn/win10-vpn-resolv.conf)  
I then simply copy this file to /etc/resolv.conf each time I enable vpn in windows.
  

## WSL-Terminal

A nice option is wsl-terminal, https://github.com/goreliu/wsl-terminal.  
To set it up to look nice then use the tips found in ["How to setup a nice looking terminal with WSL in Windows 10"](https://medium.com/@Andreas_cmj/how-to-setup-a-nice-looking-terminal-with-wsl-in-windows-10-creators-update-2b468ed7c326).

Note the following updates to that guide:
- Remove any reference to `zsh` from `.bashrc`
- Set zsh as default shell by running `chsh -s $(which zsh)`
- Change default shell for wsl-terminal to be the same as wsl:  
  In Win10, open `cmd` and run `<your install folder>\wsl-terminal\tools\6-set-default-shell.bat`



HyperJs is a fancy option that I used previously.  
The terminal lives in windows, and creating symlinks to files in windows can produce ...fascinating headaches.  
For now this dotfile will have to be manually copied to `/mnt/c/Users/<username>`.

## Resources

###### Official documentation
- [Windows Subsystem for Linux Documentation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/about)
- [Microsoft/WSL git repo](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/)  
  MS is fairly active in answering issues and providing workarounds when possible until fix is available

###### Setup
- [Bash On Ubuntu On Windows](https://github.com/abergs/ubuntuonwindows)
- [How to Install zsh and Oh My Zsh in Windows 10](https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-zsh-and-oh-my-zsh-windows10/)
- [Guide - Developing on Windows 10 using WSL](https://discourse.roots.io/t/guide-developing-on-windows-10-using-wsl/9380)
- [Shell Scripting Tutorial](https://www.shellscript.sh)

###### Examples
- [Living inside the updated windows subsystem for linux](https://taoofmac.com/space/blog/2017/05/07/1920)
- [dotfiles-win](https://github.com/jieverson/dotfiles-win)

## Odd bits  

- Nothing so far :)

Commit message:

Refactored dotfiles install, moved tooling to separate dirs

README.md, after:

# dotfiles-wsl
My horrible configuration files for Ubuntu on Windows, and an even worse attempt at creating an installer for mucking it all up again.

## Usage

Clone repo into subfolder,  
```$ git clone https://github.com/jonaspetersorensen/dotfiles-wsl.git ~/.dotfiles```  

Then run "please install" to install all I(eh, you?) need for happy development,  
```bash ~/.dotfiles/please.sh install```

For just a quick update of all dotfiles then run "please update",  
```bash ~/.dotfiles/please.sh update```

To install misc tooling then run the `bootstrap.sh` script in the corrensponding tool directory.
  
## SSH  

WSL and persisting ssh keys can be a pain.  
My current solution is to configure `~/.ssh/config` as shown in repo/ssh/config example.


## VPN

WSL does not pick up on network changes when enabling vpn in win10.  
My current workaround is to manually set which dns WSL should use each time I start vpn in win10 as shown in [vpn/win10-vpn-resolv.conf](./vpn/win10-vpn-resolv.conf)  
I then simply copy this file to /etc/resolv.conf each time I enable vpn in windows.
  

## WSL-Terminal

A nice option is wsl-terminal, https://github.com/goreliu/wsl-terminal.  
To set it up to look nice then use the tips found in ["How to setup a nice looking terminal with WSL in Windows 10"](https://medium.com/@Andreas_cmj/how-to-setup-a-nice-looking-terminal-with-wsl-in-windows-10-creators-update-2b468ed7c326).

Note the following updates to that guide:
- Remove any reference to `zsh` from `.bashrc`
- Set zsh as default shell by running `chsh -s $(which zsh)`
- Change default shell for wsl-terminal to be the same as wsl:  
  In Win10, open `cmd` and run `<your install folder>\wsl-terminal\tools\6-set-default-shell.bat`



HyperJs is a fancy option that I used previously.  
The terminal lives in windows, and creating symlinks to files in windows can produce ...fascinating headaches.  
For now this dotfile will have to be manually copied to `/mnt/c/Users/<username>`.

## Resources

###### Official documentation
- [Windows Subsystem for Linux Documentation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/about)
- [Microsoft/WSL git repo](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/)  
  MS is fairly active in answering issues and providing workarounds when possible until fix is available

###### Setup
- [Bash On Ubuntu On Windows](https://github.com/abergs/ubuntuonwindows)
- [How to Install zsh and Oh My Zsh in Windows 10](https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-zsh-and-oh-my-zsh-windows10/)
- [Guide - Developing on Windows 10 using WSL](https://discourse.roots.io/t/guide-developing-on-windows-10-using-wsl/9380)
- [Shell Scripting Tutorial](https://www.shellscript.sh)

###### Examples
- [Living inside the updated windows subsystem for linux](https://taoofmac.com/space/blog/2017/05/07/1920)
- [dotfiles-win](https://github.com/jieverson/dotfiles-win)

## Odd bits  

- Nothing so far :)
